equals macro (#8729)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/cross-database-macros.md

    cast('2016-03-09' as date)
```

> ## Comparison functions

Reviewer: Can we add an intro sentence or two about comparison functions?

Author: Added [this description](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8729/changes#diff-cb748ef4946d40976057dcb0e8eaa1e093fba4d4d23e308e354fd4567a667b61R816)

### equals 

__Args__:

- `a`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).
- `b`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).

This macro compares two expressions for equality.

By default, the `equals()` macro follows SQL's [three-valued logic (3VL)](https://modern-sql.com/concept/three-valued-logic), so `NULL = NULL` evaluates to `UNKNOWN` rather than `TRUE`.

> When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` behaves like the [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) SQL operator and treats two `NULL` values as the same. The implementation of the `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM` behavior is a beta feature in <Constant name="core" /> v1.12.

Reviewer 2: There's three different things:
1. Introduction of the `equals` cross-adapter macro
1. Behavior flag `enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro` that to control the behavior of the `equals` macro
1. Optimization of of the `equals` macro in individual adapters when `enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro=True`

The first two **do** need documentation in docs.getdbt.com. The third one should **not** be documented in docs.getdbt.com, but rather in the CHANGELOG for the individual adapter instead.

---

Using the `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM` operator under the hood is just an implementation detail. It is not a feature of `dbt-core` v1.12, but rather something in the `dbt-adapters` repository for individual adapters: dbt-athena, dbt-bigquery, dbt-snowflake, and dbt-postgres.

```suggestion
When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` behaves like the [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) SQL operator and treats two `NULL` values as the same.
```

> When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` behaves like the [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) SQL operator and treats two `NULL` values as the same. The implementation of the `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM` behavior is a beta feature in <Constant name="core" /> v1.12.

Reviewer: Depending on the answer to [this](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8729/changes#r2912108659) should we add the `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM` beta callout here too?

## Comparison functions

Comparison functions are macros that compare two SQL expressions and return a boolean SQL expression (for example, `TRUE`, `FALSE`, or `UNKNOWN`).

### equals 

__Args__:

- `a`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).
- `b`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).

This macro compares two expressions for equality.

By default, the `equals()` macro follows SQL's [three-valued logic (3VL)](https://modern-sql.com/concept/three-valued-logic), so `NULL = NULL` evaluates to `UNKNOWN` rather than `TRUE`.

When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` behaves like the [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) SQL operator and treats two `NULL` values as the same.

**Usage**:

```sql
{{ dbt.equals("column_a", "column_b") }}
{{ dbt.equals("id", "previous_id") }}
```

**Sample output (PostgreSQL with [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) enabled)**:

```sql
(column_a IS NOT DISTINCT FROM column_b)
(id IS NOT DISTINCT FROM previous_id)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's add an example of when `enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro=False`, especially since it's the default.

I didn't confirm, but I'm _guessing_ it is something like this:

```sql
(column_a = column_b)
(id = previous_id)
```

Author: Created a [ticket](https://dbtlabs.atlassian.net/browse/PRODDOCS-824) for this update!

    cast('2016-03-09' as date)
```

## Comparison functions

### equals<Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

**Availability**:

> dbt v1.12 or later. For more information, select the version from the documentation navigation menu.<!--need to confirm if correct-->

Author: Is this correct? Or is `is distinct from` the only new behavior implemented, with the equals macro having already existed before?

Reviewer 2: We accidentally didn't add the `docs_needed` label when the `equals` macro was first implemented, so it didn't get documented 😅

> The `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM` behavior is supported on Athena, BigQuery, Postgres, Redshift, Snowflake, and Spark.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest cutting this because it is just an implementation detail that optimizes the performance -- it doesn't change the semantics.

```suggestion
```

__Args__:

- `a`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).
- `b`: [attribute name or expression](#sql-expressions).

This macro compares two expressions for equality.

By default, the `equals()` macro follows SQL's [three-valued logic (3VL)](https://modern-sql.com/concept/three-valued-logic), so `NULL = NULL` evaluates to `UNKNOWN` rather than `TRUE`.

> When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` becomes null-safe: two values are considered equal if they match or if both are NULL. On supported adapters, dbt uses the SQL operator [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) to implement this behavior. This evaluates each expression _once_ and lets the engine treat the comparison as a single equality predicate.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest modifying to avoid discussing the implementation detail (which can change!) and focus on the semantic behavior instead.

```suggestion
When the [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) flag is enabled, `equals()` becomes behaves like the  [`IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`](https://modern-sql.com/feature/is-distinct-from) SQL operator and treats two `NULL` values as the same.
```

**Usage**:

```sql
{{ dbt.equals("column_a", "column_b") }}
{{ dbt.equals("id", "previous_id") }}
```

> **Sample output (PostgreSQL)**:

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear that the example has the behavior flag enabled:

```suggestion
**Sample output (PostgreSQL with [`enable_truthy_nulls_equals_macro`](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#null-safe-equality-equals-macro) enabled)**:
```
